---
path: /installation/choosing-account-and-user-ids
title: Choosing Account and User IDs
collection: Installing & Configuring Gather
category: Intro
published: true
---

The most important decision to make when configuring Gather is what to use as unique IDs for your accounts and users. The reason a unique ID is required is so that Gather can connect data for your accounts and users across different integrations into a single seamless record.

## Option 1 - Use internal IDs from your application

Typically when you build your application, each account and user within your application has their own unique ID generated by you.

#### Why would I choose this method?

This often is the best ID to use as your Gather IDs as it keeps your internal database as the single source of truth for identifiers.

#### What should I be aware of?

The consideration with this method is that each integration enabled via Gather needs to store your internal IDs. For example, if you're using HubSpot, then you'd need to have a field on your companies/contacts that stores this internal ID. All integrations supported by Gather allow you store this internal ID with them. Please see the docs for each integration for more information.

## Option 2 - Use an ID from an integration

CRMs, Salesforce in particular, can be configured in such a way that they are the single source of truth for customer data within your organization. What that means is the IDs for you accounts and contacts created by the CRM are your canonical IDs. Typically if you have this set up, you own application will pull from the CRM and use the CRM ids for uniquely identifying your customers.

Gather can be configured to use these IDs as your account and users IDs. To do so, please see the relevant docs for the CRM your using.

#### Why would I choose this method?

This method is the right one to use if you CRM is the source of truth for your customer data; your application and internal databases would be using the CRM IDs for identifying your customers.

#### What should I be aware of?

If you use these CRM IDs, any other integrations you use must also have those IDs stored in them for Gather to be able to connect data from different sources into a single record.

## Using an Email for User IDs

An option specifically for your end-users is to use their ID as the unique identifier. Typically any SaaS app you're already using will have emails for your users (Zendesk, Salesforce, etc), so it can be a simple way to connect your user data.

To use the email as the ID, each integration just needs to be configured to do so when configuring it. Please see the relevant docs for each integration on how to do this.

## Need Help?

We understand this isn't always an easy process to understand and configure. That's why we're here to help! Send an email to [support@gatherdata.co](mailto:support@gatherdata.co) and we'll help you get set up.
